# Assignment #1: Generating Random Elections [DRAFT]

## Due: 3:00pm on Friday, 2024-01-26

## Assignment Overview

In this assignment, you will write a Python program that generates random Ranked Choice Voting (RCV) elections.

The program will take many command-line arguments:

- `--num-voters`: the number of voters in the election (default: 10)
- `--num-candidates`: the number of candidates in the election (default: 3)
- `--max-unique-rankings`: the maximum number of unique rankings to generate (default: num_voters)
- `--max-ranking-length`: the maximum length of a ranking (default: num-candidates)
- `--min-ranking-length`: the minimum length of a ranking (default: num-candidates)
- `--num-elections`: the number of elections to generate (default: 1)
- `--output-file`: the file to write the election. (If not specified, the election will be written to stdout.)

## Output Format

The output file will be a JSON file with the following format:

```json
{
    "num_voters": 10,
    "num_candidates": 3,
    "max_unique_rankings": 4,
    "max_ranking_length": 3,
    "min_ranking_length": 3,
    "num_elections": 1,
    "elections" : [
        {
            "ballots": [
                {
                    "ranking": [1, 2, 0],
                    "count": 4
                },
                {
                    "ranking": [2, 1, 0],
                    "count": 3
                },
                {
                    "ranking": [0, 1, 2],
                    "count": 1
                },
                {
                    "ranking": [1, 0, 2],
                    "count": 2
                }
            ]
        }
    ]
}
```

The `ballots` array contains the ballots in the election. Each ballot has a `ranking` array, which contains the ranking of the candidates. The `count` field indicates how many ballots have that ranking.

## Requirements

Your program must meet the following requirements:

- The "num_elections" field must be equal to the number of elections in the "elections" array.
- The "rankings" within an election must be unique.
- The candidates must be numbered from 0 to num_candidates - 1.

## Python Packages

You will likely want to use the following Python packages:

* [argparse](https://docs.python.org/3/library/argparse.html) for parsing command-line arguments
* [random](https://docs.python.org/3/library/random.html) for generating random subsets
* [json](https://docs.python.org/3/library/json.html) for writing JSON files
* [itertools](https://docs.python.org/3/library/itertools.html) for generating permutations

## Hints

Think before you start to type.  Think a lot before your start to type.  Think even more before you start to type.  Then, start to type.

## Code sharing

While you may not share code with other students, you may discuss the assignment with other students.

You may also share code that is meant to test your program. For example, you may share code that reads the JSON file and verifies that the election is valid given the parameters.
